<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Act 2</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>ACT II</h2>
			<h3>PROLOGUE</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter Chorus</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Chorus</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And young affection gapes to be his heir;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now Romeo is beloved and loves again,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But to his foe supposed he must complain,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Being held a foe, he may not have access</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And she as much in love, her means much less</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To meet her new-beloved any where:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But passion lends them power, time means, to meet</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE I. A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter ROMEO</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Can I go forward when my heart is here?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>He climbs the wall, and leaps down within it</i>
				</p>
				<p>
					<i>Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Romeo! my cousin Romeo!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>He is wise;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Call, good Mercutio.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, I'll conjure too.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove;'</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>When King Cophetua loved the beggar-maid!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That in thy likeness thou appear to us!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>This cannot anger him: 'twould anger him</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of some strange nature, letting it there stand</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Till she had laid it and conjured it down;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That were some spite: my invocation</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is fair and honest, and in his mistres s' name</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I conjure only but to raise up him.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To be consorted with the humorous night:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Blind is his love and best befits the dark.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now will he sit under a medlar tree,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Romeo, that she were, O, that she were</a>
				<br/>
				<a>An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Romeo, good night: I'll to my truckle-bed;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come, shall we go?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Go, then; for 'tis in vain</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To seek him here that means not to be found.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter ROMEO</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>He jests at scars that never felt a wound.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>JULIET appears above at a window</i>
				</p>
				<a>But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Who is already sick and pale with grief,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That thou her maid art far more fair than she:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Be not her maid, since she is envious;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Her vestal livery is but sick and green</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It is my lady, O, it is my love!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, that she knew she were!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Her eye discourses; I will answer it.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Having some business, do entreat her eyes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To twinkle in their spheres till they return.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What if her eyes were there, they in her head?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Would through the airy region stream so bright</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That birds would sing and think it were not night.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, that I were a glove upon that hand,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That I might touch that cheek!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay me!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>She speaks:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As glorious to this night, being o'er my head</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As is a winged messenger of heaven</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him</a>
				<br/>
				<a>When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And sails upon the bosom of the air.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Deny thy father and refuse thy name;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And I'll no longer be a Capulet.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>[Aside] Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>'Tis but thy name that is my enemy;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What's in a name? that which we call a rose</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By any other name would smell as sweet;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Retain that dear perfection which he owes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And for that name which is no part of thee</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Take all myself.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I take thee at thy word:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Henceforth I never will be Romeo.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So stumblest on my counsel?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>By a name</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I know not how to tell thee who I am:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Because it is an enemy to thee;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Had I it written, I would tear the word.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>How camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And the place death, considering who thou art,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If any of my kinsmen find thee here.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For stony limits cannot hold love out,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And what love can do that dares love attempt;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>If they do see thee, they will murder thee.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And I am proof against their enmity.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I would not for the world they saw thee here.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And but thou love me, let them find me here:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My life were better ended by their hate,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>By whose direction found'st thou out this place?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>By love, who first did prompt me to inquire;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I would adventure for such merchandise.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What I have spoke: but farewell compliment!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Then say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Than those that have more cunning to be strange.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I should have been more strange, I must confess,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And not impute this yielding to light love,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which the dark night hath so discovered.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That monthly changes in her circled orb,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What shall I swear by?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Do not swear at all;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which is the god of my idolatry,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And I'll believe thee.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>If my heart's dear love--</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I have no joy of this contract to-night:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come to thy heart as that within my breast!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I gave thee mine before thou didst request it:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And yet I would it were to give again.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>But to be frank, and give it thee again.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And yet I wish but for the thing I have:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My bounty is as boundless as the sea,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My love as deep; the more I give to thee,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The more I have, for both are infinite.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Nurse calls within</i>
				</p>
				<a>I hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Stay but a little, I will come again.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit, above</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Being in night, all this is but a dream,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Re-enter JULIET, above</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If that thy bent of love be honourable,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By one that I'll procure to come to thee,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And follow thee my lord throughout the world.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>[Within] Madam!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I do beseech thee--</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>[Within] Madam!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>By and by, I come:--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To-morrow will I send.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>So thrive my soul--</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A thousand times good night!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit, above</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from</a>
				<br/>
				<a>their books,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Retiring</i>
				</p>
				<p>
					<i>Re-enter JULIET, above</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To lure this tassel-gentle back again!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With repetition of my Romeo's name.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>It is my soul that calls upon my name:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Like softest music to attending ears!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Romeo!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My dear?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>At what o'clock to-morrow</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall I send to thee?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>At the hour of nine.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I have forgot why I did call thee back.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Let me stand here till thou remember it.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Remembering how I love thy company.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Forgetting any other home but this.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>'Tis almost morning; I would have thee gone:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And yet no further than a wanton's bird;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Who lets it hop a little from her hand,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And with a silk thread plucks it back again,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So loving-jealous of his liberty.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I would I were thy bird.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Sweet, so would I:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Good night, good night! parting is such</a>
				<br/>
				<a>sweet sorrow,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That I shall say good night till it be morrow.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit above</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter FRIAR LAURENCE, with a basket</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The grey-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Chequering the eastern clouds with streaks of light,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels</a>
				<br/>
				<a>From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I must up-fill this osier cage of ours</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What is her burying grave that is her womb,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And from her womb children of divers kind</a>
				<br/>
				<a>We sucking on her natural bosom find,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Many for many virtues excellent,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>None but for some and yet all different.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For nought so vile that on the earth doth live</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But to the earth some special good doth give,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nor aught so good but strain'd from that fair use</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And vice sometimes by action dignified.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Within the infant rind of this small flower</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Poison hath residence and medicine power:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Two such opposed kings encamp them still</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And where the worser is predominant,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter ROMEO</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good morrow, father.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Benedicite!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Young son, it argues a distemper'd head</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And where care lodges, sleep will never lie;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Therefore thy earliness doth me assure</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou art up-roused by some distemperature;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or if not so, then here I hit it right,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I'll tell thee, ere thou ask it me again.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I have been feasting with mine enemy,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That's by me wounded: both our remedies</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Within thy help and holy physic lies:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My intercession likewise steads my foe.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set</a>
				<br/>
				<a>On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And all combined, save what thou must combine</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By holy marriage: when and where and how</a>
				<br/>
				<a>We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That thou consent to marry us to-day.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>How much salt water thrown away in waste,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To season love, that of it doth not taste!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And bad'st me bury love.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Not in a grave,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To lay one in, another out to have.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I pray thee, chide not; she whom I love now</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Doth grace for grace and love for love allow;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The other did not so.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, she knew well</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But come, young waverer, come, go with me,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In one respect I'll thy assistant be;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For this alliance may so happy prove,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To turn your households' rancour to pure love.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE IV. A street.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Where the devil should this Romeo be?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Came he not home to-night?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Hath sent a letter to his father's house.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A challenge, on my life.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Romeo will answer it.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Any man that can write may answer a letter.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he</a>
				<br/>
				<a>dares, being dared.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a</a>
				<br/>
				<a>white wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a</a>
				<br/>
				<a>love-song; the very pin of his heart cleft with the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>blind bow-boy's butt-shaft: and is he a man to</a>
				<br/>
				<a>encounter Tybalt?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, what is Tybalt?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is</a>
				<br/>
				<a>the courageous captain of compliments. He fights as</a>
				<br/>
				<a>you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and</a>
				<br/>
				<a>proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and</a>
				<br/>
				<a>the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk</a>
				<br/>
				<a>button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>very first house, of the first and second cause:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso! the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>hai!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The what?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting</a>
				<br/>
				<a>fantasticoes; these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>a very good blade! a very tall man! a very good</a>
				<br/>
				<a>whore!' Why, is not this a lamentable thing,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with</a>
				<br/>
				<a>these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these</a>
				<br/>
				<a>perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>that they cannot at ease on the old bench? O, their</a>
				<br/>
				<a>bones, their bones!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter ROMEO</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers</a>
				<br/>
				<a>that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his lady was but a</a>
				<br/>
				<a>kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better love to</a>
				<br/>
				<a>be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra a gipsy;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Helen and Hero hildings and harlots; Thisbe a grey</a>
				<br/>
				<a>eye or so, but not to the purpose. Signior</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Romeo, bon jour! there's a French salutation</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit</a>
				<br/>
				<a>fairly last night.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The ship, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in</a>
				<br/>
				<a>such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That's as much as to say, such a case as yours</a>
				<br/>
				<a>constrains a man to bow in the hams.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Meaning, to court'sy.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou hast most kindly hit it.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A most courteous exposition.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Pink for flower.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Right.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, then is my pump well flowered.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast</a>
				<br/>
				<a>worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it</a>
				<br/>
				<a>is worn, the jest may remain after the wearing sole singular.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O single-soled jest, solely singular for the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>singleness.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have</a>
				<br/>
				<a>done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of</a>
				<br/>
				<a>thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>was I with you there for the goose?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast</a>
				<br/>
				<a>not there for the goose.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, good goose, bite not.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most</a>
				<br/>
				<a>sharp sauce.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an</a>
				<br/>
				<a>inch narrow to an ell broad!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I stretch it out for that word 'broad;' which added</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art</a>
				<br/>
				<a>thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>for this drivelling love is like a great natural,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Stop there, stop there.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, thou art deceived; I would have made it short:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>for I was come to the whole depth of my tale; and</a>
				<br/>
				<a>meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Here's goodly gear!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter Nurse and PETER</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A sail, a sail!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Two, two; a shirt and a smock.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Peter!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Anon!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My fan, Peter.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>fairer face.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>God ye good morrow, gentlemen.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Is it good den?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>'Tis no less, I tell you, for the bawdy hand of the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>dial is now upon the prick of noon.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Out upon you! what a man are you!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to</a>
				<br/>
				<a>mar.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>By my troth, it is well said; 'for himself to mar,'</a>
				<br/>
				<a>quoth a'? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>may find the young Romeo?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when</a>
				<br/>
				<a>you have found him than he was when you sought him:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>You say well.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>wisely, wisely.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>if you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with</a>
				<br/>
				<a>you.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>She will indite him to some supper.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What hast thou found?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>that is something stale and hoar ere it be spent.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Sings</i>
				</p>
				<a>An old hare hoar,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And an old hare hoar,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is very good meat in lent</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But a hare that is hoar</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is too much for a score,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>When it hoars ere it be spent.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to dinner, thither.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I will follow you.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Singing</i>
				</p>
				<a>'lady, lady, lady.'</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Marry, farewell! I pray you, sir, what saucy</a>
				<br/>
				<a>merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>and will speak more in a minute than he will stand</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to in a month.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>An a' speak any thing against me, I'll take him</a>
				<br/>
				<a>down, an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty such</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Jacks; and if I cannot, I'll find those that shall.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I am</a>
				<br/>
				<a>none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand by</a>
				<br/>
				<a>too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I saw no man use you a pleasure; if I had, my weapon</a>
				<br/>
				<a>should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare</a>
				<br/>
				<a>draw as soon as another man, if I see occasion in a</a>
				<br/>
				<a>good quarrel, and the law on my side.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Now, afore God, I am so vexed, that every part about</a>
				<br/>
				<a>me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>and as I told you, my young lady bade me inquire you</a>
				<br/>
				<a>out; what she bade me say, I will keep to myself:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her into</a>
				<br/>
				<a>a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross</a>
				<br/>
				<a>kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman</a>
				<br/>
				<a>is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double</a>
				<br/>
				<a>with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>protest unto thee--</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost not mark me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I will tell her, sir, that you do protest; which, as</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Bid her devise</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Some means to come to shrift this afternoon;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Be shrived and married. Here is for thy pains.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No truly sir; not a penny.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Go to; I say you shall.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Within this hour my man shall be with thee</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which to the high top-gallant of my joy</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Must be my convoy in the secret night.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Farewell; be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What say'st thou, my dear nurse?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Is your man secret? Did you ne'er hear say,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Two may keep counsel, putting one away?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I warrant thee, my man's as true as steel.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>NURSE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Lord! when 'twas a little prating thing:--O, there</a>
				<br/>
				<a>is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain</a>
				<br/>
				<a>lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as lief</a>
				<br/>
				<a>see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her</a>
				<br/>
				<a>sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer</a>
				<br/>
				<a>man; but, I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks</a>
				<br/>
				<a>as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not</a>
				<br/>
				<a>rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ah. mocker! that's the dog's name; R is for</a>
				<br/>
				<a>the--No; I know it begins with some other</a>
				<br/>
				<a>letter:--and she hath the prettiest sententious of</a>
				<br/>
				<a>it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to hear it.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Commend me to thy lady.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, a thousand times.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit Romeo</i>
				</p>
				<a>Peter!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Anon!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Peter, take my fan, and go before and apace.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter JULIET</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In half an hour she promised to return.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, she is lame! love's heralds should be thoughts,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Driving back shadows over louring hills:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now is the sun upon the highmost hill</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is three long hours, yet she is not come.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Had she affections and warm youthful blood,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She would be as swift in motion as a ball;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My words would bandy her to my sweet love,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And his to me:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But old folks, many feign as they were dead;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O God, she comes!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter Nurse and PETER</i>
				</p>
				<a>O honey nurse, what news?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Peter, stay at the gate.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit PETER</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By playing it to me with so sour a face.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I am a-weary, give me leave awhile:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Jesu, what haste? can you not stay awhile?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Do you not see that I am out of breath?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To say to me that thou art out of breath?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The excuse that thou dost make in this delay</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not</a>
				<br/>
				<a>how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his</a>
				<br/>
				<a>face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels</a>
				<br/>
				<a>all men's; and for a hand, and a foot, and a body,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>though they be not to be talked on, yet they are</a>
				<br/>
				<a>past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy</a>
				<br/>
				<a>ways, wench; serve God. What, have you dined at home?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No, no: but all this did I know before.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What says he of our marriage? what of that?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Beshrew your heart for sending me about,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To catch my death with jaunting up and down!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a</a>
				<br/>
				<a>courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Where is my mother! why, she is within;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where is your mother?'</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O God's lady dear!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is this the poultice for my aching bones?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Henceforward do your messages yourself.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I have.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>There stays a husband to make you a wife:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Hie you to church; I must another way,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To fetch a ladder, by the which your love</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I am the drudge and toil in your delight,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But you shall bear the burden soon at night.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Go; I'll to dinner: hie you to the cell.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Hie to high fortune! Honest nurse, farewell.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE VI. Friar Laurence's cell.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and ROMEO</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>So smile the heavens upon this holy act,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That after hours with sorrow chide us not!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Amen, amen! but come what sorrow can,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It cannot countervail the exchange of joy</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That one short minute gives me in her sight:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Do thou but close our hands with holy words,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Then love-devouring death do what he dare;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It is enough I may but call her mine.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>These violent delights have violent ends</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which as they kiss consume: the sweetest honey</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is loathsome in his own deliciousness</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And in the taste confounds the appetite:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Therefore love moderately; long love doth so;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter JULIET</i>
				</p>
				<a>Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A lover may bestride the gossamer</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That idles in the wanton summer air,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And yet not fall; so light is vanity.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good even to my ghostly confessor.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>As much to him, else is his thanks too much.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Unfold the imagined happiness that both</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Receive in either by this dear encounter.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Brags of his substance, not of ornament:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>They are but beggars that can count their worth;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But my true love is grown to such excess</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Come, come with me, and we will make short work;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Till holy church incorporate two in one.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
