<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act 5</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-5" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Act <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span></h2>
			<section id="scene-5-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>Scene <span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span></h3>
				<p>Mantua. A street.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter ROMEO</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I dreamt my lady came and found me dead--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave</span>
									<br/>
									<span>to think!--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And breathed such life with kisses in my lips,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I revived, and was an emperor.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When but love's shadows are so rich in joy! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter BALTHASAR, booted</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>News from Verona!--How now, Balthasar!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How doth my lady? Is my father well?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For nothing can be ill, if she be well.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And her immortal part with angels lives.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And presently took post to tell it you:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since you did leave it for my office, sir.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And hire post-horses; I will hence to-night.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I do beseech you, sir, have patience:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your looks are pale and wild, and do import</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some misadventure.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Tush, thou art deceived:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Leave me, and do the thing I bid thee do.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td>No, my good lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No matter: get thee gone,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And hire those horses; I'll be with thee straight. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit BALTHASAR</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I do remember an apothecary,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Culling of simples; meagre were his looks,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>An alligator stuff'd, and other skins</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A beggarly account of empty boxes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Green earthen pots, bladders and musty seeds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Noting this penury, to myself I said</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'An if a man did need a poison now,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose sale is present death in Mantua,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, this same thought did but forerun my need;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And this same needy man must sell it me.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I remember, this should be the house.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What, ho! apothecary! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Apothecary</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apothecary</td>
							<td>Who calls so loud?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As will disperse itself through all the veins</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That the life-weary taker may fall dead</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that the trunk may be discharged of breath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As violently as hasty powder fired</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apothecary</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is death to any he that utters them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The world affords no law to make thee rich;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apothecary</td>
							<td>My poverty, but not my will, consents.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td>I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apothecary</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Put this in any liquid thing you will,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And drink it off; and, if you had the strength</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>There is thy gold, worse poison to men's souls,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doing more murders in this loathsome world,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come, cordial and not poison, go with me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-2" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>Scene <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span></h3>
				<p>Friar Laurence's cell.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter FRIAR JOHN</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR JOHN</td>
							<td>Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter FRIAR LAURENCE</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This same should be the voice of Friar John.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR JOHN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Going to find a bare-foot brother out</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One of our order, to associate me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here in this city visiting the sick,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And finding him, the searchers of the town,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Suspecting that we both were in a house</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where the infectious pestilence did reign,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td>Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR JOHN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I could not send it,--here it is again,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So fearful were they of infection.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The letter was not nice but full of charge</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of dear import, and the neglecting it</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May do much danger. Friar John, go hence;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unto my cell.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR JOHN</td>
							<td>Brother, I'll go and bring it thee. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Now must I to the monument alone;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Within three hours will fair Juliet wake:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She will beshrew me much that Romeo</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath had no notice of these accidents;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I will write again to Mantua,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Poor living corse, closed in a dead man's tomb! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-3" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>Scene <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></h3>
				<p>A churchyard; in it a tomb belonging to the Capulets.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter PARIS, and his Page bearing flowers and a torch</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PARIS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As signal that thou hear'st something approach.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PAGE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> I am almost afraid to stand alone</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Retires</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PARIS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones;--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which with sweet water nightly I will dew,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The obsequies that I for thee will keep</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The Page whistles</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>The boy gives warning something doth approach.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Retires</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter ROMEO and BALTHASAR, with a torch, mattock, etc.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hold, take this letter; early in the morning</span>
									<br/>
									<span>See thou deliver it to my lord and father.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Give me the light: upon thy life, I charge thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And do not interrupt me in my course.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why I descend into this bed of death,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is partly to behold my lady's face;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A precious ring, a ring that I must use</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In what I further shall intend to do,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The time and my intents are savage-wild,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More fierce and more inexorable far</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td>I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Retires</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gorged with the dearest morsel of the earth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Opens the tomb</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PARIS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This is that banish'd haughty Montague,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That murder'd my love's cousin, with which grief,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It is supposed, the fair creature died;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And here is come to do some villanous shame</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Comes forward</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can vengeance be pursued further than death?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fly hence, and leave me: think upon these gone;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Put not another sin upon my head,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By urging me to fury: O, be gone!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By heaven, I love thee better than myself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For I come hither arm'd against myself:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A madman's mercy bade thee run away.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PARIS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I do defy thy conjurations,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And apprehend thee for a felon here.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td>Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They fight</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PAGE</td>
							<td>O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PARIS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, I am slain! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Falls</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>If thou be merciful,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Dies</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ROMEO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What said my man, when my betossed soul</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did not attend him as we rode? I think</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He told me Paris should have married Juliet:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Said he not so? or did I dream it so?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A grave? O no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This vault a feasting presence full of light.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laying PARIS in the tomb</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>How oft when men are at the point of death</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have they been merry! which their keepers call</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A lightning before death: O, how may I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And death's pale flag is not advanced there.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, what more favour can I do to thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To sunder his that was thine enemy?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Forgive me, cousin! Ah, dear Juliet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That unsubstantial death is amorous,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that the lean abhorred monster keeps</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thee here in dark to be his paramour?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For fear of that, I still will stay with thee;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And never from this palace of dim night</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Depart again: here, here will I remain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With worms that are thy chamber-maids; O, here</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will I set up my everlasting rest,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A dateless bargain to engrossing death!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here's to my love! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drinks</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>O true apothecary!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Dies</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter, at the other end of the churchyard, FRIAR LAURENCE, with a lantern, crow, and spade</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td>Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It burneth in the Capel's monument.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One that you love.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td>Who is it?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td>Romeo.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td>How long hath he been there?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td>Full half an hour.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td>Go with me to the vault.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I dare not, sir</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My master knows not but I am gone hence;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And fearfully did menace me with death,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If I did stay to look on his intents.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Stay, then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I dreamt my master and another fought,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that my master slew him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Romeo! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Advances</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The stony entrance of this sepulchre?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What mean these masterless and gory swords</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To lie discolour'd by this place of peace? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enters the tomb</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Romeo! O, pale! Who else? what, Paris too?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is guilty of this lamentable chance!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The lady stirs.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">JULIET wakes</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">JULIET</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O comfortable friar! where is my lord?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I do remember well where I should be,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And there I am. Where is my Romeo? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Noise within</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A greater power than we can contradict</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Stay not to question, for the watch is coming;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come, go, good Juliet, <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Noise again</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>I dare no longer stay.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">JULIET</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Go, get thee hence, for I will not away. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit FRIAR LAURENCE</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To help me after? I will kiss thy lips;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To make die with a restorative. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kisses him</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy lips are warm.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Watchman</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Within</i> Lead, boy: which way?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">JULIET</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Snatching ROMEO's dagger</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>This is thy sheath; <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stabs herself</i> there rust, and let me die. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Falls on ROMEO's body, and dies</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Watch, with the Page of PARIS</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PAGE</td>
							<td>This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Watchman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The ground is bloody; search about the churchyard:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who here hath lain these two days buried.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Raise up the Montagues: some others search:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But the true ground of all these piteous woes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We cannot without circumstance descry.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter some of the Watch, with BALTHASAR</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Watchman</td>
							<td>Here's Romeo's man; we found him in the churchyard.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Watchman</td>
							<td>Hold him in safety, till the prince come hither.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter others of the Watch, with FRIAR LAURENCE</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Watchman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs and weeps:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We took this mattock and this spade from him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As he was coming from this churchyard side.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Watchman</td>
							<td>A great suspicion: stay the friar too.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter the PRINCE and Attendants</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What misadventure is so early up,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That calls our person from our morning's rest?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and others</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAPULET</td>
							<td>What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY CAPULET</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The people in the street cry Romeo,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With open outcry toward our monument.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td>What fear is this which startles in our ears?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Watchman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Warm and new kill'd.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td>Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Watchman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With instruments upon them, fit to open</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These dead men's tombs.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAPULET</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is empty on the back of Montague,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">LADY CAPULET</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O me! this sight of death is as a bell,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That warns my old age to a sepulchre.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter MONTAGUE and others</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Come, Montague; for thou art early up,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To see thy son and heir more early down.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MONTAGUE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What further woe conspires against mine age?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td>Look, and thou shalt see.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MONTAGUE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O thou untaught! what manners is in this?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To press before thy father to a grave?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till we can clear these ambiguities,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And know their spring, their head, their</span>
									<br/>
									<span>true descent;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then will I be general of your woes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let mischance be slave to patience.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bring forth the parties of suspicion.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am the greatest, able to do least,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet most suspected, as the time and place</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doth make against me of this direful murder;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And here I stand, both to impeach and purge</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Myself condemned and myself excused.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td>Then say at once what thou dost know in this.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FRIAR LAURENCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I will be brief, for my short date of breath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is not so long as is a tedious tale.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I married them; and their stol'n marriage-day</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was Tybalt's dooms-day, whose untimely death</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from the city,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You, to remove that siege of grief from her,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Betroth'd and would have married her perforce</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To County Paris: then comes she to me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To rid her from this second marriage,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or in my cell there would she kill herself.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A sleeping potion; which so took effect</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I intended, for it wrought on her</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That he should hither come as this dire night,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being the time the potion's force should cease.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But he which bore my letter, Friar John,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Return'd my letter back. Then all alone</span>
									<br/>
									<span>At the prefixed hour of her waking,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Meaning to keep her closely at my cell,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till I conveniently could send to Romeo:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But when I came, some minute ere the time</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of her awaking, here untimely lay</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She wakes; and I entreated her come forth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And bear this work of heaven with patience:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But then a noise did scare me from the tomb;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And she, too desperate, would not go with me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But, as it seems, did violence on herself.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All this I know; and to the marriage</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Miscarried by my fault, let my old life</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unto the rigour of severest law.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We still have known thee for a holy man.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BALTHASAR</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I brought my master news of Juliet's death;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then in post he came from Mantua</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To this same place, to this same monument.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This letter he early bid me give his father,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And threatened me with death, going in the vault,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I departed not and left him there.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Give me the letter; I will look on it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sirrah, what made your master in this place?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PAGE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And by and by my master drew on him;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then I ran away to call the watch.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This letter doth make good the friar's words,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Their course of love, the tidings of her death:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And here he writes that he did buy a poison</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>See, what a scourge is laid upon your hate,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I for winking at your discords too</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAPULET</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O brother Montague, give me thy hand:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This is my daughter's jointure, for no more</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can I demand.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">MONTAGUE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>But I can give thee more:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For I will raise her statue in pure gold;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That while Verona by that name is known,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There shall no figure at such rate be set</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As that of true and faithful Juliet.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAPULET</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Poor sacrifices of our enmity!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PRINCE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A glooming peace this morning with it brings;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For never was a story of more woe</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than this of Juliet and her Romeo. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
