<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Act 4</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>ACT IV</h2>
			<h3>SCENE I. Friar Laurence's cell.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My father Capulet will have it so;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>You say you do not know the lady's mind:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Uneven is the course, I like it not.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And therefore have I little talk'd of love;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To stop the inundation of her tears;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which, too much minded by herself alone,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>May be put from her by society:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now do you know the reason of this haste.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>[Aside] I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Look, sir, here comes the lady towards my cell.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter JULIET</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Happily met, my lady and my wife!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What must be shall be.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That's a certain text.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Come you to make confession to this father?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>To answer that, I should confess to you.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Do not deny to him that you love me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I will confess to you that I love him.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>If I do so, it will be of more price,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The tears have got small victory by that;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For it was bad enough before their spite.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And what I spake, I spake it to my face.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>It may be so, for it is not mine own.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Are you at leisure, holy father, now;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or shall I come to you at evening mass?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My lord, we must entreat the time alone.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>God shield I should disturb devotion!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Till then, adieu; and keep this holy kiss.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O shut the door! and when thou hast done so,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It strains me past the compass of my wits:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>On Thursday next be married to this county.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Do thou but call my resolution wise,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And with this knife I'll help it presently.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall be the label to another deed,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or my true heart with treacherous revolt</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Turn to another, this shall slay them both:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Therefore, out of thy long-experienced time,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Give me some present counsel, or, behold,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which the commission of thy years and art</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Could to no issue of true honour bring.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Be not so long to speak; I long to die,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Hold, daughter: I do spy a kind of hope,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which craves as desperate an execution.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As that is desperate which we would prevent.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If, rather than to marry County Paris,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Then is it likely thou wilt undertake</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A thing like death to chide away this shame,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That copest with death himself to scape from it:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>From off the battlements of yonder tower;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or bid me go into a new-made grave</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And I will do it without fear or doubt,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Take thou this vial, being then in bed,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And this distilled liquor drink thou off;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>When presently through all thy veins shall run</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A cold and drowsy humour, for no pulse</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Each part, deprived of supple government,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Then, as the manner of our country is,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In thy best robes uncover'd on the bier</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And hither shall he come: and he and I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Will watch thy waking, and that very night</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And this shall free thee from this present shame;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If no inconstant toy, nor womanish fear,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Abate thy valour in the acting it.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Hold; get you gone, be strong and prosperous</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Farewell, dear father!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE II. Hall in Capulet's house.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, Nurse, and two Servingmen</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>So many guests invite as here are writ.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit First Servant</i>
				</p>
				<a>Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they</a>
				<br/>
				<a>can lick their fingers.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>How canst thou try them so?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his</a>
				<br/>
				<a>own fingers: therefore he that cannot lick his</a>
				<br/>
				<a>fingers goes not with me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Go, be gone.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit Second Servant</i>
				</p>
				<a>We shall be much unfurnished for this time.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, forsooth.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well, he may chance to do some good on her:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>See where she comes from shrift with merry look.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter JULIET</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of disobedient opposition</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And beg your pardon: pardon, I beseech you!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Henceforward I am ever ruled by you.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Send for the county; go tell him of this:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And gave him what becomed love I might,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Not step o'er the bounds of modesty.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, I am glad on't; this is well: stand up:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This is as't should be. Let me see the county;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Our whole city is much bound to him.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To help me sort such needful ornaments</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt JULIET and Nurse</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>We shall be short in our provision:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'Tis now near night.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Tush, I will stir about,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll play the housewife for this once. What, ho!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To County Paris, to prepare him up</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE III. Juliet's chamber.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter JULIET and Nurse</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, those attires are best: but, gentle nurse,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I pray thee, leave me to my self to-night,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For I have need of many orisons</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To move the heavens to smile upon my state,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter LADY CAPULET</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So please you, let me now be left alone,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And let the nurse this night sit up with you;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In this so sudden business.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good night:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That almost freezes up the heat of life:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll call them back again to comfort me:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nurse! What should she do here?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My dismal scene I needs must act alone.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come, vial.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What if this mixture do not work at all?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>No, no: this shall forbid it: lie thou there.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Laying down her dagger</i>
				</p>
				<a>What if it be a poison, which the friar</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Because he married me before to Romeo?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I fear it is: and yet, methinks, it should not,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For he hath still been tried a holy man.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>How if, when I am laid into the tomb,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I wake before the time that Romeo</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall I not, then, be stifled in the vault,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or, if I live, is it not very like,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The horrible conceit of death and night,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Together with the terror of the place,--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where, for these many hundred years, the bones</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of all my buried ancestors are packed:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>At some hours in the night spirits resort;--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Alack, alack, is it not like that I,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So early waking, what with loathsome smells,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That living mortals, hearing them, run mad:--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Environed with all these hideous fears?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And madly play with my forefather's joints?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Upon a rapier's point: stay, Tybalt, stay!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>She falls upon her bed, within the curtains</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE IV. Hall in Capulet's house.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter CAPULET</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Come, stir, stir, stir! the second cock hath crow'd,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Spare not for the cost.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Go, you cot-quean, go,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Get you to bed; faith, You'll be sick to-morrow</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For this night's watching.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now</a>
				<br/>
				<a>All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But I will watch you from such watching now.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A jealous hood, a jealous hood!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter three or four Servingmen, with spits, logs, and baskets</i>
				</p>
				<a>Now, fellow,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What's there?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Make haste, make haste.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit First Servant</i>
				</p>
				<a>Sirrah, fetch drier logs:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Call Peter, he will show thee where they are.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I have a head, sir, that will find out logs,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And never trouble Peter for the matter.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The county will be here with music straight,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For so he said he would: I hear him near.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Music within</i>
				</p>
				<a>Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Re-enter Nurse</i>
				</p>
				<a>Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Make haste; the bridegroom he is come already:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Make haste, I say.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE V. Juliet's chamber.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter Nurse</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Mistress! what, mistress! Juliet! fast, I warrant her, she:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The County Paris hath set up his rest,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I must needs wake her. Madam, madam, madam!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ay, let the county take you in your bed;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Undraws the curtains</i>
				</p>
				<a>What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I must needs wake you; Lady! lady! lady!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Alas, alas! Help, help! my lady's dead!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, well-a-day, that ever I was born!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Some aqua vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter LADY CAPULET</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What noise is here?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O lamentable day!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What is the matter?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Look, look! O heavy day!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O me, O me! My child, my only life,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Help, help! Call help.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter CAPULET</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>She's dead, deceased, she's dead; alack the day!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ha! let me see her: out, alas! she's cold:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Life and these lips have long been separated:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Death lies on her like an untimely frost</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O lamentable day!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O woful time!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ties up my tongue, and will not let me speak.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS, with Musicians</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Come, is the bride ready to go to church?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ready to go, but never to return.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O son! the night before thy wedding-day</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Hath Death lain with thy wife. There she lies,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Flower as she was, deflowered by him.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My daughter he hath wedded: I will die,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Have I thought long to see this morning's face,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And doth it give me such a sight as this?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Most miserable hour that e'er time saw</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But one thing to rejoice and solace in,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Most lamentable day, most woful day,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That ever, ever, I did yet behold!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Never was seen so black a day as this:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O woful day, O woful day!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O love! O life! not life, but love in death!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To murder, murder our solemnity?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And with my child my joys are buried.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In these confusions. Heaven and yourself</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And all the better is it for the maid:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Your part in her you could not keep from death,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The most you sought was her promotion;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For 'twas your heaven she should be advanced:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, in this love, you love your child so ill,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That you run mad, seeing that she is well:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She's not well married that lives married long;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But she's best married that dies married young.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary</a>
				<br/>
				<a>On this fair corse; and, as the custom is,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In all her best array bear her to church:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For though fond nature bids us an lament,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>All things that we ordained festival,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Turn from their office to black funeral;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Our instruments to melancholy bells,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And all things change them to the contrary.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>FRIAR LAURENCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And go, Sir Paris; every one prepare</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To follow this fair corse unto her grave:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The heavens do lour upon you for some ill;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Move them no more by crossing their high will.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, PARIS, and FRIAR LAURENCE</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Honest goodfellows, ah, put up, put up;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter PETER</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's</a>
				<br/>
				<a>ease:' O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why 'Heart's ease?'</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My</a>
				<br/>
				<a>heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to comfort me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Not a dump we; 'tis no time to play now.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>You will not, then?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I will then give it you soundly.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What will you give us?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No money, on my faith, but the gleek;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I will give you the minstrel.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Then I will give you the serving-creature.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on</a>
				<br/>
				<a>your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll fa you; do you note me?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>An you re us and fa us, you note us.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Pray you, put up your dagger, and put out your wit.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you</a>
				<br/>
				<a>with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer</a>
				<br/>
				<a>me like men:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'When griping grief the heart doth wound,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And doleful dumps the mind oppress,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Then music with her silver sound'--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver</a>
				<br/>
				<a>sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I say 'silver sound,' because musicians sound for silver.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Third Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Faith, I know not what to say.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PETER</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say</a>
				<br/>
				<a>for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'</a>
				<br/>
				<a>because musicians have no gold for sounding:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'Then music with her silver sound</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With speedy help doth lend redress.'</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What a pestilent knave is this same!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Musician</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>mourners, and stay dinner.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
