<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Act 1</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>ACT I</h2>
			<h3>SCENE I. Verona. A public place.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter SAMPSON and GREGORY, of the house of Capulet, armed with swords and bucklers</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No, for then we should be colliers.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I strike quickly, being moved.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>But thou art not quickly moved to strike.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A dog of the house of Montague moves me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>To move is to stir; and to be valiant is to stand:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A dog of that house shall move me to stand: I will</a>
				<br/>
				<a>take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to the wall.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>True; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids</a>
				<br/>
				<a>to the wall.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant: when I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>have fought with the men, I will be cruel with the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>maids, and cut off their heads.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The heads of the maids?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>take it in what sense thou wilt.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>They must take it in sense that feel it.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou</a>
				<br/>
				<a>hadst been poor John. Draw thy tool! here comes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>two of the house of the Montagues.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I will back thee.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>How! turn thy back and run?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Fear me not.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No, marry; I fear thee!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as</a>
				<br/>
				<a>they list.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ABRAHAM</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I do bite my thumb, sir.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ABRAHAM</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>[Aside to GREGORY] Is the law of our side, if I say</a>
				<br/>
				<a>ay?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>bite my thumb, sir.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Do you quarrel, sir?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ABRAHAM</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Quarrel sir! no, sir.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ABRAHAM</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No better.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well, sir.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>GREGORY</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Yes, better, sir.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ABRAHAM</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>You lie.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>SAMPSON</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>They fight</i>
				</p>
				<p>
					<i>Enter BENVOLIO</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Part, fools!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Put up your swords; you know not what you do.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Beats down their swords</i>
				</p>
				<p>
					<i>Enter TYBALT</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>TYBALT</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I do but keep the peace: put up thy sword,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or manage it to part these men with me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>TYBALT</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Have at thee, coward!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>They fight</i>
				</p>
				<p>
					<i>Enter, several of both houses, who join the fray; then enter Citizens, with clubs</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Citizen</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Down with the Capulets! down with the Montagues!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter CAPULET in his gown, and LADY CAPULET</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And flourishes his blade in spite of me.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MONTAGUE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou villain Capulet,--Hold me not, let me go.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY MONTAGUE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Thou shalt not stir a foot to seek a foe.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter PRINCE, with Attendants</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PRINCE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel,--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That quench the fire of your pernicious rage</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With purple fountains issuing from your veins,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>On pain of torture, from those bloody hands</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And hear the sentence of your moved prince.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And made Verona's ancient citizens</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To wield old partisans, in hands as old,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If ever you disturb our streets again,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For this time, all the rest depart away:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>You Capulet; shall go along with me:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, Montague, come you this afternoon,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To know our further pleasure in this case,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To old Free-town, our common judgment-place.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt all but MONTAGUE, LADY MONTAGUE, and BENVOLIO</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MONTAGUE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Here were the servants of your adversary,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I drew to part them: in the instant came</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepared,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which, as he breathed defiance to my ears,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>He swung about his head and cut the winds,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Who nothing hurt withal hiss'd him in scorn:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Came more and more and fought on part and part,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Till the prince came, who parted either part.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY MONTAGUE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, where is Romeo? saw you him to-day?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Right glad I am he was not at this fray.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where, underneath the grove of sycamore</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That westward rooteth from the city's side,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So early walking did I see your son:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Towards him I made, but he was ware of me</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And stole into the covert of the wood:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I, measuring his affections by my own,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That most are busied when they're most alone,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Pursued my humour not pursuing his,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MONTAGUE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Many a morning hath he there been seen,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But all so soon as the all-cheering sun</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Should in the furthest east begin to draw</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Away from the light steals home my heavy son,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And private in his chamber pens himself,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shuts up his windows, locks far daylight out</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And makes himself an artificial night:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Black and portentous must this humour prove,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Unless good counsel may the cause remove.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My noble uncle, do you know the cause?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MONTAGUE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I neither know it nor can learn of him.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Have you importuned him by any means?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MONTAGUE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Both by myself and many other friends:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But he, his own affections' counsellor,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is to himself--I will not say how true--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But to himself so secret and so close,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So far from sounding and discovery,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As is the bud bit with an envious worm,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>We would as willingly give cure as know.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter ROMEO</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll know his grievance, or be much denied.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MONTAGUE</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I would thou wert so happy by thy stay,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good-morrow, cousin.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Is the day so young?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>But new struck nine.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay me! sad hours seem long.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Was that my father that went hence so fast?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Not having that, which, having, makes them short.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>In love?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Out--</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Of love?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Out of her favour, where I am in love.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O any thing, of nothing first create!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O heavy lightness! serious vanity!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>sick health!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This love feel I, that feel no love in this.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Dost thou not laugh?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No, coz, I rather weep.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good heart, at what?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>At thy good heart's oppression.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, such is love's transgression.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With more of thine: this love that thou hast shown</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Being vex'd a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What is it else? a madness most discreet,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A choking gall and a preserving sweet.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Farewell, my coz.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Soft! I will go along;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Tut, I have lost myself; I am not here;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This is not Romeo, he's some other where.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What, shall I groan and tell thee?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Groan! why, no.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But sadly tell me who.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A right good mark-man! And she's fair I love.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She will not stay the siege of loving terms,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O, she is rich in beauty, only poor,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That when she dies with beauty dies her store.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For beauty starved with her severity</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Cuts beauty off from all posterity.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To merit bliss by making me despair:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Do I live dead that live to tell it now.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, teach me how I should forget to think.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>By giving liberty unto thine eyes;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Examine other beauties.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>'Tis the way</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To call hers exquisite, in question more:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Being black put us in mind they hide the fair;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>He that is strucken blind cannot forget</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Show me a mistress that is passing fair,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What doth her beauty serve, but as a note</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE II. A street.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter CAPULET, PARIS, and Servant</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>But Montague is bound as well as I,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For men so old as we to keep the peace.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Of honourable reckoning are you both;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And pity 'tis you lived at odds so long.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>But saying o'er what I have said before:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My child is yet a stranger in the world;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She hath not seen the change of fourteen years,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Let two more summers wither in their pride,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>PARIS</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Younger than she are happy mothers made.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And too soon marr'd are those so early made.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She is the hopeful lady of my earth:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My will to her consent is but a part;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>An she agree, within her scope of choice</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Lies my consent and fair according voice.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Whereto I have invited many a guest,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Such as I love; and you, among the store,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>One more, most welcome, makes my number more.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>At my poor house look to behold this night</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Such comfort as do lusty young men feel</a>
				<br/>
				<a>When well-apparell'd April on the heel</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of limping winter treads, even such delight</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Among fresh female buds shall you this night</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Inherit at my house; hear all, all see,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And like her most whose merit most shall be:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which on more view, of many mine being one</a>
				<br/>
				<a>May stand in number, though in reckoning none,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come, go with me.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>To Servant, giving a paper</i>
				</p>
				<a>Go, sirrah, trudge about</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Through fair Verona; find those persons out</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Whose names are written there, and to them say,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt CAPULET and PARIS</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Find them out whose names are written here! It is</a>
				<br/>
				<a>written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his</a>
				<br/>
				<a>yard, and the tailor with his last, the fisher with</a>
				<br/>
				<a>his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but I am</a>
				<br/>
				<a>sent to find those persons whose names are here</a>
				<br/>
				<a>writ, and can never find what names the writing</a>
				<br/>
				<a>person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In good time.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter BENVOLIO and ROMEO</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>One desperate grief cures with another's languish:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Take thou some new infection to thy eye,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And the rank poison of the old will die.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Your plaintain-leaf is excellent for that.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>For what, I pray thee?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>For your broken shin.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, Romeo, art thou mad?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Not mad, but bound more than a mad-man is;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shut up in prison, kept without my food,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>God gi' god-den. I pray, sir, can you read?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Perhaps you have learned it without book: but, I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>pray, can you read any thing you see?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, if I know the letters and the language.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ye say honestly: rest you merry!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Stay, fellow; I can read.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Reads</i>
				</p>
				<a>'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady</a>
				<br/>
				<a>widow of Vitravio; Signior Placentio and his lovely</a>
				<br/>
				<a>nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; mine</a>
				<br/>
				<a>uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Rosaline; Livia; Signior Valentio and his cousin</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair</a>
				<br/>
				<a>assembly: whither should they come?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Up.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Whither?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>To supper; to our house.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Whose house?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My master's.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Now I'll tell you without asking: my master is the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house</a>
				<br/>
				<a>of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Rest you merry!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>At this same ancient feast of Capulet's</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lovest,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With all the admired beauties of Verona:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Go thither; and, with unattainted eye,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Compare her face with some that I shall show,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>When the devout religion of mine eye</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And these, who often drown'd could never die,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Herself poised with herself in either eye:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Your lady's love against some other maid</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That I will show you shining at this feast,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And she shall scant show well that now shows best.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE III. A room in Capulet's house.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Now, by my maidenhead, at twelve year old,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I bade her come. What, lamb! what, ladybird!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter JULIET</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>How now! who calls?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Your mother.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Madam, I am here.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What is your will?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>This is the matter:--Nurse, give leave awhile,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>She's not fourteen.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And yet, to my teeth be it spoken, I have but four--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She is not fourteen. How long is it now</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To Lammas-tide?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A fortnight and odd days.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Even or odd, of all days in the year,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Were of an age: well, Susan is with God;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She was too good for me: but, as I said,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That shall she, marry; I remember it well.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And she was wean'd,--I never shall forget it,--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of all the days of the year, upon that day:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My lord and you were then at Mantua:--</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nay, I do bear a brain:--but, as I said,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shake quoth the dove-house: 'twas no need, I trow,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To bid me trudge:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And since that time it is eleven years;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She could have run and waddled all about;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For even the day before, she broke her brow:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And then my husband--God be with his soul!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A' was a merry man--took up the child:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidame,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The pretty wretch left crying and said 'Ay.'</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To see, now, how a jest shall come about!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I warrant, an I should live a thousand years,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I never should forget it: 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, pretty fool, it stinted and said 'Ay.'</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Enough of this; I pray thee, hold thy peace.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Yes, madam: yet I cannot choose but laugh,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A bump as big as a young cockerel's stone;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A parlous knock; and it cried bitterly:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'Yea,' quoth my husband,'fall'st upon thy face?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted and said 'Ay.'</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>An I might live to see thee married once,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I have my wish.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>How stands your disposition to be married?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>It is an honour that I dream not of.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>An honour! were not I thine only nurse,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well, think of marriage now; younger than you,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Are made already mothers: by my count,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I was your mother much upon these years</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A man, young lady! lady, such a man</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As all the world--why, he's a man of wax.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Verona's summer hath not such a flower.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What say you? can you love the gentleman?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This night you shall behold him at our feast;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Examine every married lineament,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And see how one another lends content</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And what obscured in this fair volume lies</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Find written in the margent of his eyes.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This precious book of love, this unbound lover,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To beautify him, only lacks a cover:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For fair without the fair within to hide:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So shall you share all that he doth possess,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By having him, making yourself no less.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>No less! nay, bigger; women grow by men.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I'll look to like, if looking liking move:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But no more deep will I endart mine eye</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter a Servant</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you</a>
				<br/>
				<a>called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed in</a>
				<br/>
				<a>the pantry, and every thing in extremity. I must</a>
				<br/>
				<a>hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>LADY CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>We follow thee.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit Servant</i>
				</p>
				<a>Juliet, the county stays.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE IV. A street.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Enter ROMEO, MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, with five or six Maskers, Torch-bearers, and others</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Or shall we on without a apology?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The date is out of such prolixity:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke</a>
				<br/>
				<a>After the prompter, for our entrance:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But let them measure us by what they will;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Give me a torch: I am not for this ambling;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Being but heavy, I will bear the light.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Not I, believe me: you have dancing shoes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With nimble soles: I have a soul of lead</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And soar with them above a common bound.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I am too sore enpierced with his shaft</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Under love's heavy burden do I sink.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And, to sink in it, should you burden love;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Too great oppression for a tender thing.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>If love be rough with you, be rough with love;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Give me a case to put my visage in:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A visor for a visor! what care I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What curious eye doth quote deformities?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Here are the beetle brows shall blush for me.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But every man betake him to his legs.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A torch for me: let wantons light of heart</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll be a candle-holder, and look on.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>If thou art dun, we'll draw thee from the mire</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, that's not so.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I mean, sir, in delay</a>
				<br/>
				<a>We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Five times in that ere once in our five wits.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And we mean well in going to this mask;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But 'tis no wit to go.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, may one ask?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I dream'd a dream to-night.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>And so did I.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Well, what was yours?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>That dreamers often lie.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>In shape no bigger than an agate-stone</a>
				<br/>
				<a>On the fore-finger of an alderman,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Drawn with a team of little atomies</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The cover of the wings of grasshoppers,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The traces of the smallest spider's web,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Her wagoner a small grey-coated gnat,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Not so big as a round little worm</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And in this state she gallops night by night</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O'er ladies ' lips, who straight on kisses dream,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Then dreams, he of another benefice:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And sleeps again. This is that very Mab</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That plats the manes of horses in the night,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That presses them and learns them first to bear,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Making them women of good carriage:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This is she--</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thou talk'st of nothing.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>MERCUTIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>True, I talk of dreams,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which are the children of an idle brain,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which is as thin of substance as the air</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Even now the frozen bosom of the north,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Turning his face to the dew-dropping south.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Supper is done, and we shall come too late.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I fear, too early: for my mind misgives</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Some consequence yet hanging in the stars</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall bitterly begin his fearful date</a>
				<br/>
				<a>With this night's revels and expire the term</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of a despised life closed in my breast</a>
				<br/>
				<a>By some vile forfeit of untimely death.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>But He, that hath the steerage of my course,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Strike, drum.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<h3>SCENE V. A hall in Capulet's house.</h3>
			<blockquote>
				<i>Musicians waiting. Enter Servingmen with napkins</i>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away? He</a>
				<br/>
				<a>shift a trencher? he scrape a trencher!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's</a>
				<br/>
				<a>hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Away with the joint-stools, remove the</a>
				<br/>
				<a>court-cupboard, look to the plate. Good thou, save</a>
				<br/>
				<a>me a piece of marchpane; and, as thou lovest me, let</a>
				<br/>
				<a>the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Antony, and Potpan!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, boy, ready.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>First Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>You are looked for and called for, asked for and</a>
				<br/>
				<a>sought for, in the great chamber.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>We cannot be here and there too. Cheerly, boys; be</a>
				<br/>
				<a>brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Enter CAPULET, with JULIET and others of his house, meeting the Guests and Maskers</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That I have worn a visor and could tell</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>You are welcome, gentlemen! come, musicians, play.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A hall, a hall! give room! and foot it, girls.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Music plays, and they dance</i>
				</p>
				<a>More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For you and I are past our dancing days:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>How long is't now since last yourself and I</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Were in a mask?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Capulet</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>By'r lady, thirty years.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>'Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come pentecost as quickly as it will,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Some five and twenty years; and then we mask'd.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Second Capulet</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>'Tis more, 'tis more, his son is elder, sir;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>His son is thirty.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Will you tell me that?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>His son was but a ward two years ago.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>[To a Servingman] What lady is that, which doth</a>
				<br/>
				<a>enrich the hand</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of yonder knight?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Servant</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I know not, sir.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>TYBALT</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>This, by his voice, should be a Montague.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>TYBALT</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>A villain that is hither come in spite,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To scorn at our solemnity this night.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Young Romeo is it?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>TYBALT</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>'Tis he, that villain Romeo.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>He bears him like a portly gentleman;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And, to say truth, Verona brags of him</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I would not for the wealth of all the town</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Here in my house do him disparagement:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Therefore be patient, take no note of him:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>It is my will, the which if thou respect,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>TYBALT</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>It fits, when such a villain is a guest:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll not endure him.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>He shall be endured:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>What, goodman boy! I say, he shall: go to;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Am I the master here, or you? go to.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>You'll not endure him! God shall mend my soul!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>You'll make a mutiny among my guests!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>TYBALT</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Go to, go to;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>You are a saucy boy: is't so, indeed?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Be quiet, or--More light, more light! For shame!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll make you quiet. What, cheerly, my hearts!</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>TYBALT</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I will withdraw: but this intrusion shall</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Now seeming sweet convert to bitter gall.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exit</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>[To JULIET] If I profane with my unworthiest hand</a>
				<br/>
				<a>This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand</a>
				<br/>
				<a>To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Which mannerly devotion shows in this;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Then have my lips the sin that they have took.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Sin from thy lips? O trespass sweetly urged!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Give me my sin again.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>You kiss by the book.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Madam, your mother craves a word with you.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What is her mother?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Marry, bachelor,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Her mother is the lady of the house,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I nursed her daughter, that you talk'd withal;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I tell you, he that can lay hold of her</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Shall have the chinks.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Is she a Capulet?</a>
				<br/>
				<a>O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>BENVOLIO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Away, begone; the sport is at the best.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>ROMEO</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>CAPULET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I thank you, honest gentlemen; good night.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>More torches here! Come on then, let's to bed.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late:</a>
				<br/>
				<a>I'll to my rest.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt all but JULIET and Nurse</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>The son and heir of old Tiberio.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What's he that now is going out of door?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What's he that follows there, that would not dance?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>I know not.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Go ask his name: if he be married.</a>
				<br/>
				<a>My grave is like to be my wedding bed.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>His name is Romeo, and a Montague;</a>
				<br/>
				<a>The only son of your great enemy.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>My only love sprung from my only hate!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Too early seen unknown, and known too late!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Prodigious birth of love it is to me,</a>
				<br/>
				<a>That I must love a loathed enemy.</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>What's this? what's this?</a>
				<br/>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>JULIET</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>A rhyme I learn'd even now</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Of one I danced withal.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>One calls within 'Juliet.'</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<a>
				<b>Nurse</b>
			</a>
			<blockquote>
				<a>Anon, anon!</a>
				<br/>
				<a>Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.</a>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<i>Exeunt</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
